Alright, so it is September 10.
So, let's start the beginning and tell me about where you began so maybe you can start by just telling you when were you born.
Okay. I was born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. Right.
And on.
Okay, the 14th Street.
And
I asked when when when I was February February 27 1979 29.
Mm hmm.
So tell me about your family's history like how did they end up living.
What's your parents Yeah, um, it's funny. Both my parents, I'm not migrated but you kind of from Harlem.
They were one of those.
A lot of families that were looking to where I will honestly it was that was my grandmother's were single mothers and they were trying to find more opportunities.
And
there was housing opportunities over here. Yeah.
And so a lot of people, that's I think I can see like the history of it was like, the more Jewish the Jewish population was actually blocking the Queens into the suburbs they were leaving, and then the Hispanic in the end, and black population started
moving further down and spreading out, because it was for housing opportunities away. So I bought my grandma's, sometimes we came to the Lower East Side,
and came to loot to lower east side from, from same neighborhoods in Harlem.
And so, no. And then it was funny because all they knew each other. And it's funny the new children later on, get together and have me, right, but they.
So they knew each other for years and then my mother, my father met just happenstance like, you know, years later on. Yeah.
Yeah, they met on the Lower East Side. And actually, you can on in Jackson Park. Yeah, there's a tree with their initials in it from when they were little kids.
They were high school sweethearts your high school sweethearts. And then that's again the now.
But the tree, and the initials is still in there.
Crazy. Yeah, because they'll go back there. Look at that. Yesterday, so what's your like ancestry or your. Do you like to the African American, just, I hate to use those boxes and we have to.
I'm just curious Yes, I did another project in the Bronx, and it was really interesting because everybody was really mixed, you know there was like one grandmother was from, you know, Jamaica and other grandmother was from, you know, Atlanta had these
like really interesting histories of.
Nope.
Both my parents both my parents.
They just, we are hate to say that we're African American so soon I like that word. I mean think about it like it's fundamentally
just perpetuating the social social construct. Yeah, it's like African Americans, Africa, Africa as a whole continent. Yeah, plethora of, you know, beliefs and cultures and dialects, and to, to give it back to me and neatly name like, Oh, you know what,
in the past, you know, we, your predecessors we pulled from your country in Boise enslaved.
And you know we'll give you that Africa they, you know like, not not specific like, I don't have any regions that I'm you know just Africa, just Africa.
Yeah, so games like like.
I like to quote by Brown.
Brown.
I think that we can get to a better direction that way.
Hey man, everybody's Brown, got some different color. it's brown, Brown and so right.
You know, I like that way better, because just just worry too much. Yeah, I'm just saying that just for like, for the purpose of the interview but man, I use I usually say I'm Brown.
Brown person but I did. I don't I don't most of my family's from the south. Yeah, and then.
Yeah.
Yeah. We are family unions are, you know, I just like the last one that we had. But we have from the millions and every year we go different places, but a lot of the families found this out.
And
my, my father front of my last name. A lot of people have my last name in Panama,
with their and a phone book hammer last name.
But it was so weird because in America I've never or very rarely are people with my last name.
And my father put two s's at the end, he put the other s at the end is like
double double. And then, even if you Google my name. A lot of people who have have one s. Yeah. And then when I go to Panama. Yeah, there's some that had to SS It was weird.
It was very crazy but it was cool and it was cool to see that and then just being in, I looked like, like the people, nobody knew he was asking me what I was when I was, I was from.
And I'm like, really crazy small, far, far away.
It's an island. It's far and it's crazy.
It's crazy, where they look like me siloed, I feel like my father could be from Panama I did ask him and he doesn't know much about his father now know much about him
with your mom.
I grew up my mom, I grew up with her, and she raised four of us have siblings have two older brothers and a younger sister. She's 28.
And we, my older brothers are 3236 3536.
The overseas the welcome.
It was four of us have already kind of like when I was three addicted to drugs.
Heroin and crack
is one of my time, great, but he may have insulted it's funny because I was open for six years.
And I just started talking to him about like for four months ago.
To do that, it's funny.
We were we're doing.
We're taking classes where we're trying to combine like
the martial arts trainings with community organizing the aspects of it. And one of the things that we're doing is, it does it is, and actually learning martial law.
Yeah, we're learning how to use that though, to center ourselves in our work, whatever we're learning. It's actually spilling into our personal lives, and that's one of the Corolla reserve it.
I am I am talking to my father now because I'm thinking more about my energy, and I was used, and it was way more negative energy used to hate him. And it was to love him.
Yeah, so it's like a less. I even feel like less energy being used with
an hour ago and I mean I've had scanning, everybody else. I'm so aware of all the socio economic conditions, but when it's right in front, you know, means it's directly affecting me I've.
I was like not consistent with that, like, I was not consistent with that my life. So, that's what starts all over again. Yeah. Where is he is to learn a word to as well.
And it's funny because the way you found him, I found him in 1990. We got to start talking back in 1997. Yeah.
right before I went to college. Yeah.
And he, We found them because we lost my cat.
And it was my senior high school that Boy George goes Boy George, my senior high school, and I'm worried about my cat, I got midterms and everything and my cat is missing and I'm going crazy.
And he was one of those cats. This is the city, he will go out, he will go out to the windows and he will do some crazy stuff and sometimes go all throughout the building but he would come back yeah he would start crying back at the door like he always
came back, but somebody wanted to do maintenance.
But we found him, he took him to put him in a basement for rats. They took my cat and put them down here for rats, my cats.
But we'll record when I was with my sister now door knocking looking for my cat.
And that's how I found my phone like oh street from me. I'm like, the door. No, actually when it was like it's like a, it's like one of them houses where all the people do the drugs and everything yeah crack spot.
And, but we didn't know that anyone who's knocking on the door, and somebody said, I think those are your kids outside.
And my sister and I looked at him was like, daddy.
dad's house, and we just stood there still, I didn't was was showing up.
We found them again. And it was like, Oh,
that's great, because he's got it. So he still lives in the neighborhood. And it was right across street from my mom like literally well now she moved further, she moved to another smaller apartment, so he doesn't live in the same development, they live
literally in the same development you know I live in.
It was from. Yeah.
Yeah. Okay. He still lives there. And, yeah, my mother.
My mother is heat my father doing at work so if you actually volunteered yesterday for the elections, you know, I got him to help him.
Yeah, I got him involved he got to see a little more what I do. Yeah. And
my mother. She's, she's a social worker in the Lower East Side social worker for secret. She's.
She's close to retiring closely in a 30 year mark boy. Yeah, so she's, she's been helping parents at a Head Start program.
That's great. So she's still here and she works in the neighborhood, and I'm here and I'm working to enable
I live, I live where I live
now.
And I used to live my sister, but she just moved out.
And, yeah, that is good. I mean, it's probably kind of cool right yes cool because you know when you leave in the morning and then you come back and like everything's back when you left it exactly, that's, that's what's making me is making you more account
like nah can't blame things on my sister like throw out the garbage me know.
Okay, we like yes is splitting me is putting things into perspective my gosh it man I gotta people come over I gotta make sure my point.
But, yes, she is cool we wanna tell me like, what do you remember that being a kid.
I know it's so funny, is this is a memory that's good so funny you just said, there's a memory, that's good and bad itself. Okay.
When we were little, we played this game called colors. Okay, what does it take before you have to I was living together we was friends and we have grown up together.
Before we left associated pick a color, what color purple.
Sure, I'm great. Okay, we walk out, and we count how many crack vials we see with that.
Okay, so if you.
So we will get ready to go to this post office.
By the time we got to the post office and back.
But either way, that's almost Jones was in this neighborhoods where they will crack balls everywhere, drug legals that was, that was a common thing grass so you didn't play in grass.
You kept on grass, because the place where dogs crap that yeah yeah jug needles in it. Yeah and incorrect balls. They look like little perfume. It looks like a little perfume quite lost and where they're all different colors, different colors.
So every normal color you pick our motto was always purple, purple,
purple, purple, purple, I said, I had like I had like this.
This decides to like not Purple's a cut, everybody gets really did.
But so yeah it was purple, and this was in school yards in in churches in any type of grass over here, there was drug needles and crack vials and all of that in there.
Oy, where does he play. That's a funny, so we played in talks that we still play in these parks Okay, we still play these parks so yeah we still like everyone say like, it was this is a negative part of it but I remember that.
That was fun. It was a fun game, you know, not knowing the real applications of it. even when we played.
I remember cases with a freakin drug needle. He picked it up and without an AIDS was around was like you know you didn't know about AIDS much but it was I can do that.
nice sorry right yeah. But there was drug needles, more Naga when I got older I play basketball. Yeah. And the way we played VSV still booms from the maintenance men.
Yeah, and clean up works. Before we played on them. They had to clean the grass, we got to clean the glass.
And we will beg the donkeys, but you will make like agreements with them like man, please will be in his corner man, because going to get on the court is going to get on the court man, please pno corner.
Just be over there.
And these were all men that were attached to families.
But they were like the serious public drug users. And then some of them will have alcohol problems, some of them were dicta other types of drugs, but it was still a community, which is oddly enough, yeah, they still like I still go walk we walked by the
basketball court right now. And there's those guys are still in Estonia Sydney, everything's changing around them, but they're still there, an economy shows the joke around so David like we all joking.
But that they were looking, they were looking at me and watch me grow up and, yeah, they still even make dumb conversation asked me from what happened to basketball, but these are the people that this was my neighborhood, this will be played at those
that I remember, so I mean it sounds like you necessarily feel unsafe even being in this kind of unsafe environment, you knew what to do when my mother, when I walked in my building as a little girl, we had to ring the bell before we walked in the building
some other knew that he was in the building.
When we was leaving the building, we had to ring the bell when we left the building. So know that we made it out of the building.
The building was the girl was saying, This is what she needed you know, we had Tycho's when, when we were at home we go for no one, not even family members, money, I got my cousin in one day.
And I was like oh he's my family. My mother told me you do not open the door for anyone anybody. Nobody, nobody. So I got in trouble for that once I'm always travel appears like my sister now he's always on work with each other.
When we are Walkmans right you couldn't you couldn't hold it out like now and you had to not have it loud because somebody might come up and run up on you.
When you.
You kept the quarter, my mother may so he kept quarters title not little boss, so we could call it a payphone in case of emergency. Yeah. And, you know, we I just never, I never felt.
I felt like they had those fears but I knew that like there was these things that I had to do like a set of rules. Rules yeah when you guys on the blog you didn't go to the whole block were looking back at least once, and never did that, and it makes
to me. You know he was taught that you will not block, you look you check yourself take you somewhere else every once in a while. These are things that we just raised up with. I remember throwing out the garbage. There was a junkie guy, he was running away from people shooting at him.
And we are just going to stop me I just been me I literally just throw we would throw the garbage. Why I just went away from automation.
And I remember like him breathing so hard and and sweating, and he was, it was, we heard those thoughts and then I figured we would probably like I was the guy that was.
But I remember some of the garbage. And I remember being like this little girl, my assistant athletic director together like we can go in, they will get together
with I remember us like just knowing what to do. I remember this knowing like don't think in the mind at calm, at what he's not even here, and thought the garbage, and I was terrified by remember like just be like, oh, we're going to go and harness literally
But I remember like just being like, oh, we're going to go and literally talk like he wasn't like giving your heart out of breath, you were talking like yeah, the food is good.
We both knew me when we never looked each other once so know what I mean we just keep it moving. Don't act like you don't see it all the garbage I really you know he's dead, they know exactly what the drug dealers they they sold drugs in the buildings.
All the time there's drug drug dealer I'm talking about huge operations. Yeah, on every floor you we.
Yeah, so used to be in the hallway we used to play out in the hallway to that was not a safe place where I'm hallway. And when we will go by, some people will come invited to get the drugs you would see tons of money on the table and it was just, we couldn't
think about it.
Did you ever have any experiences that affected you personally like any of this stuff like by violence fights, whatever like touch you you know you saw it but I saw you know I saw it, but I never touched it, even when I was older My mother was like nine
o'clock, you're going to be okay with money in front of the door. Yeah, not not not not no one o'clock. And if I came in and no one, one day without the phone 950 59 3030 days without the phone.
And if you want to knock off some days you have to clean out the cabinets and rearrange the linen closet to knock on wood, but that's what.
Yes, he was tough but so never really I mean I have to, I have to really think about what my brother was attacked a lot my brother is also homosexual.
And that may, that was a that is made it. I just added that just add a field, and I watched my mother struggle with that, you know, so really trying to worry about her son wasn't accepted in the community.
It wasn't safe for him. So like he came home, you can call him a couple of times beat up jumped in at one point is husband who is still with today, they still together it was there, they're going on like 1617 years old, 18 years, I'm going to discredit
they had together for a long time.
And at the time he was actually staying with us too and I remember him coming home one day and he's a, he was a foster kid and displace that his community and my mother.
My mother is also take everybody into that I learned like I have to share spaces with people.
I will come in the morning and always have people on the floor living in my house, my cousins next door neighbors. You know, so that's how it touched me too.
So like my brother He came all beat up a couple of times.
My cousin's guide says on stuff. My father is addicted to drugs. So what does that mean like the people that were around me sometimes when
I see people like my mother one day, I remember this Donkey Lady Kiss Me and my mother makes a big database she's like oh yeah daughters so cute.
And mommy's tummy never the kiss was like she was strict with everything yeah it was it was like, she keeps me and my mother, she literally went crazy.
Oh, bye.
Bye,
wash my face you took me took me to the doctor gave us kitchen, I was a big thing was like no no Don't touch my shoulders.
These things, touching on my brother got beat up my other brother. I once had a gun pulled out on me, but it was like, if I think about it, it was this guy's name is.
And I was, he was transferred to one of my little friends, he's my brother's age. Yeah, he should I talked to my little friend. And I was like, I was like really like outspoken, I still am, but you know, I was more like what, and I said to him, Rabbi
cinema my business I said, that's a little girl messing when you got enough girls your age, that little girl that's nasty. And we were still young, he probably was 16 or 15 at the time he was still a young kid we all still little kids but he had a gun,
he had a gun. And he came up to me.
He pulled out on me he was like you need to open need to shut your mouth, or take a particular you and your end goal, and he said, I'll take care of us, and get your brother.
And that's what I realized like.
That's just like that's a condition in my community, and my brother. I realize I need to never do that again never open my mouth and put my family a risk is here is my brother.
My brother was a basketball player and that's what made him cool he could dunk. He was fast and that's where everybody respected and that's what he got his respect not from someone Jones or anything like that. And that's what it is that's what his thing was like man I'll shoot your podcast brother to and what it made me realize me in the community I was in certain roles with
the community I was in certain roles with guns and, you know, my brother could could could potentially be, you know, could have gotten killed because of that.
Yeah, you know, so, and then that's not even counting all the little hood fights that happen but nothing crazy nothing like really crazy actually directly affected me and so later on, when I came back to the neighborhood from college.
Okay. So you went away. Yeah went away. Okay.
And then, I mean what was
everything,
every day, and it was more like, you know, you know, if you look at this painting right this famous in the you stand really close to it, you could admire all the detail of everything, and all the colors.
And it just took a while for me to really step back and see what was happening my neighborhood, you know, and then see the whole full picture. So look very beautiful at, at the time.
Yeah. And when you say revitalise like these, I put in the night. I've been doing these when I do workshops I'm like let's put down some new bad curse words like revitalize like D costs and treat like these are these new bad words that we didn't we never
knew what were hurt us revitalize our community that sounds great. Sounds pretty good. Yeah, but no, it's not gonna always be, you know, positive things that are coming out of that.
and when when I first went off went out.
I remember like programs are thriving. Yeah. And I remember our kids were very involved in. And I noticed to like this is some seriously funding stuff started getting cut from programs, locally.
This is like maybe like like almost like 20 years ago, when Giuliani and the tacky cutting programs tremendously. Yeah, in a neighborhood.
And that affected a lot. I used to coach basketball.
I was one of those. That's nothing that's memory. When I was a little girl is is tomboy. And there was like ice always come and there's like, you know what, if you want little girl because I kept saying one little girls they say you know what you want
little girls, go get them.
That's it. Oh, and then if I get a little girls we could have a team.
So let me I'd like to tell you right my homegrown still to this day we still work together, actually like she works with us, and I work here but we've actually bridge those gaps she has her youth come and organize with us and do organize a public housing
with both of us went and we did recruiting for you, for girls and we came up with all these little girls. Yeah, they will none of our little our age. So one of the committee Junior coaches and we started our own little program, this is this is this is
very true.
Literally, I was like probably like 14 1515, and we had a team that we had practices, and we had the gym on certain hours for certain, certain days we did it.
We did it, but I used to I used to coach basketball, and one of the little girls that we coached they frankly now they have babies and, and they are not and I mean much I said that was the nlb awful programs but they didn't have no anywhere to go.
When we cut that program there was really nothing for those little kids to do. Yeah. And so I came back and not a lot of them are pregnant and addicted to Joe.